this is the AR ni o language course
episode 2 we open episode 2 but
reviewing some of the vocabulary
introduced in episode 1 and expanding on
that vocabulary what does that mean it
means we discuss some meanings that
those words have or some ways that you
can use those words in a sentence that
were not covered in episode 1 but this
will refresh your memory if you are
using this series of videos more
seriously and intensively as a real
language course throughout this course
we use examples drawn from Chinese
history and from current and ongoing
political controversies we deal with
even the simplest aspects of the Chinese
language in a sophisticated way if you
don't know what AR and IO stands for
it's active research and informed
opinion I hope that you can cultivate an
informed opinion about Chinese politics
while at the same time working to
improve your ability in the Chinese
language so this word cho cho with tone
1 Cho we reflected on a quite some
length in the first episode if I were to
describe a fundamental meaning to it or
a root meaning to it it would be this
verbal sense of to pull something to
draw something out and then in an
abstract sense we can imagine the
etymological origin of these other
meanings as being linked to that
fundamental meaning so the idea of
pulling the smoke from a cigarette
drawing it out and then most remarkably
of all we have this sense of a meaning
and abstraction like abstract reasoning
also in the arts abstract painting so I
just have this on screen without the
pinyin for a moment because I know some
of you would like to challenge
yourselves if you're an intermediate
student to see how much of this you can
read how much this you can understand
without relying on the pinyin
interpretation job which is so much holy
sound that don't see while my lovely
assistant was reading that to you aloud
you will have note
that the word chosen is highlighted in
yellow however long before we get to the
word chose young we have this
interesting word Cong Cong II suggests a
protest or an objection of one kind or
another in the case of the four
character phrase Kanye yo scene then we
are talking about a demonstration in the
sense of people marching in protest now
all of these words are also quite
confusing in English if you look up the
word demonstrate and demonstration in
English it has many many meanings well
we have to forgive Chinese because
Connie has quite a few different
possible meanings to it could just be
that you are voicing your objection to
something that you're disagreeing with
something verbally that you know you're
in a business meeting say and you're
gonna voice your objection to what your
boss is saying it could when combined
with the right verb it could mean that
you're giving in a written complaint
that you're protesting in writing maybe
you've even filled out a form however
yes in this sort of political context
you may mean street demonstrations you
may mean even quite violent
demonstrations I would say that this
particular word Kong he has quite
positive connotations though if you read
Chinese government publications or
Chinese government propaganda you will
very often see more disparaging terms
being used to refer to protest so tandel
yungang de Connie so if you don't
recognize Shang Gong
that is how we say Hong Kong in modern
standard Mandarin he spoke about the
protests in Hong Kong
this is not something abstract Shibuya
Schama Joseon they don't see so much
choice on the donkey in the English
language we have a confusing
relationship between the verb meaning to
draw
and then the noun a drawer to draw a
desk drawer
well if English is confusing on this I
suppose Chinese must be permitted to be
a little bit confusing on the same
matter they do form the standard now on
for desk drawer again using Cho although
here it's it's not in a verbal sense
it's just part of the noun in the same
sense that drawer in English is in fact
a noun even though it's related to a
verb Totti Locke 8ot but we have the
simple fundamental meaning the sense
being to pull the string on a spinning
top for example and as you see in the
picture here the Chinese concept of what
a spinning top is supposed to be as a
toy it's not quite the same as what you
might have in North America or Western
Europe this is my finger this is a
photograph I took myself living in
Taiwan I felt this delightful example of
a use of CHO in practice googling around
I find that a great variety of products
promotions promotions from restaurant
chains coffee shops like Starbucks and
also gambling seems to use this
particular phrase cho chola here's
another funny example that I found
myself discovering a use of the word in
the wild again this is my own finger
this photograph 100 poles right you can
pull on this box of tissue paper 100
times before it runs out of tissues so
instead of saying it has a hundred items
you get a hundred poles episode one
concluded with a homework assignment for
you in the audience we began to tell the
tale of Norman Bethune so the first six
characters at the top of the screen here
are a phonetic transcription of his name
into Chinese Norman by Chuang Chou
chiana de Gong Chan down Yin da matta
content down content down yang as you've
just heard the first and most important
fact that you need to hear about Norman
Bethune is that he
as a Canadian member of the Communist
Party dear please pass word along to the
party I'm extremely excited to be able
to inform you today I arrived at my
destination the headquarters of the
jeans hygiene military district yes
that's right
there was a white Canadian medical
doctor who flew to China to join the
Communist revolution he saved a small
number of lives and he supported the
Communist Party in its mass murder of
millions of others by Chuen chairman
norman baesell
Yaiba joining in science aha to show us
Canada Ontario Joe Kowalewski Jerry
tollen Toshiba Russia Kony such an
attack on chandangadh party leadership
mr. Tomita joaco issued to Georgia Tech
Sanada to start open open the agent
Alfonso no don't worry we're not gonna
make use of that audio clip I just
played where she's speaking Chinese much
too rapidly for a foreign student of the
language but I'm playing you that clip
just to draw your attention to the fact
that Norman Bethune is not merely the
focus of Chinese communist propaganda
from the 1960s no no the production of
new cinema new TV shows new lectures new
textbooks he is very much a featured
protagonist in Chinese propaganda still
to this day wait a minute one engine I
do not know how much of the Chinese
language Norman Bethune managed to learn
when he was living and working in China
but he is depicted here in this
propaganda film as speaking plausible
level one Chinese speaking very simple
and slow Chinese in the same way that
you or I might struggle to speak Chinese
so he asks the young woman here why did
you not complete your studies but to
read this more word by word precisely
wish emma mies villain why
do not study to completion so this
particular one is used in combination
with many different verbs not all verbs
but many many different verbs to suggest
the completion of the action
note that the negating particle here is
May it's not booooo it's may may say 1
why did you not study until the point of
completion where's my mystery one in
which engine one thing that's consistent
strangely in all the propaganda
reinterpretations and representations of
Norman Bethune is that they try to make
him resemble the Russian revolutionary
leader Lenin they make him look like
Vladimir Ilyich Lenin and the actual
historical figure if you look at the
photographs he really didn't have any
resemblance to lend him at all and yet
by the way this intersects with my own
family history in case you hadn't
guessed my parents or Chinese communist
extremists and they named my sister
after Norman Bethune so even though my
sister obviously born female she was
named after this guy and so we were
turned to your homework assignment from
Episode one if you were wondering what
textbook I am quoting this from let me
tell you something there are some
textbooks that really help you learn the
Chinese language there are some
textbooks that are chock full of
government propaganda and there are some
textbooks that are both this anonymously
written publication from the Chinese
communist government in 1976 is
instructive in more ways than one
it will help you to learn the Chinese
language I sincerely doubt it will
convince you to
two Chinese communism you guys are
familiar with most of this vocabulary by
now so we can go fairly rapidly through
the first sentence Norman by Jo Ann sure
Jenna dot-com chun-yin my children she
tell my chain thunkian
let's pause for just one moment on this
word Yin I try to draw your attention as
before with text on screen it is not
really the same as saying that someone
is a communist party member in most of
its uses UN really does mean an employee
or especially an official in the sense
of government official the very start of
the episode I reiterated my promise that
in each episode I try to take at least
one word and break it down into its
components into its radicals as we say
in Chinese this one seems self-evident
the bottom half is BAE BAE is one of the
most common glyphs one of the most
common symbols one of the most common
radicals in the whole the Chinese
language it is a pictograph of a calorie
shell so this is a type of shell found
in the ocean that in ancient times was
used as currency it was used as money so
today it's found in many words related
to value treasure money that sort of
thing you will hear in casual Chinese
slang already at level one Bao bei bei
however the visual etymology of this
word does not stop with bei because it
turns out that bei is just a corruption
for Dean and what is Dean you will find
the english translation of ding is ding
this is in the class of words where we
do not bother to translate it in English
we now have a proper noun in the English
language we say this is a ding of that
as a ding what is a ding if you put the
word into Google Image Search you will
soon see that it is a ritual object from
ancient times
very commonly seen in museums today and
probably very rarely seen outside of a
museum if you live in the Western world
this is a great example of how studying
the etymology of Orden Chinese sometimes
tells you everything but reveals nothing
so the history of this character is that
today we write it as a Cowrie shell a
type of seashell with a square above it
whereas in ancient times it was written
with this ding this ritual object with a
square above it how does that relate to
the meaning perhaps not at all Norman by
Chuang Chou
chiana de Gong Chan down Yin Tasha
Yong Ming the typhoon with a bunch of
jang-ho the conger chang-jung ito
San Shi en Lai Dow
Chong go see you next episode
[Music]